In this lecture, you'll learn about the benefits the network programmability and automation provides
over traditional network management, looking at traditional network management first, the way that
that is done is by configuring your network devices, your viewers, your switches, firewalls, etc.,
one at a time using S.H. to the command line.
So if you have a network administrator and you have to configure five hours and five switches right
now, what you'll do is you will connect to them separately and you will configure them each individually,
one at a time.
And copying and pasting a config from a text file is the usual way of doing things as well as the command
line.
Guey tools have also been available for a long time that what you work on rotors and switches and firewalls
one at a time, but they are typically very smooth to use, which makes an efficient.
So network administrators will usually use the command line.
There are also Annemasse network management systems such as Solar Wings and Cisco Works that used to
be available quite a long time ago.
And Cisco, prime infrastructure, they use protocols such as S&P and net flu to gather information
from the network devices and report on the state of the network.
S&P was originally proposed in 1988.
So it's been out for a very long time, as well as being able to pull information from network devices.
S&P can also be used to push configuration to them as well, but it's got limited functionality there.
So it's used more commonly for pooling information and reporting rather than for pushing configuration.
Those solutions can be complex to implement and operate.
And S&P also has some security concerns as well.
So looking at the issues with traditional network management, configuring one device at a time is time
consuming and inefficient.
Obviously, if you have got 30 devices that you need to configure there, it's going to be a lot quicker
if you can push the configuration to them all in one go, rather than logging in and configuring each
one one at a time by configuring each one, one at a time.
That also increases the likelihood of typos and other mistakes as well.
So maybe you do one configuration on device if you accidentally do a different configuration on device.
The individual edits to multiple devices by different network engineers over time with little version
control also needs to configuration drift where you've got no one standardized configurations.
So the first network engineer might configure a particular feature in one way.
A different network engineer might configure it in a different way.
And having those non-standard IDE configurations and accessing one device a time is also inefficient
for troubleshooting.
So let's look at network automation now and the benefits that it can bring, automation can be used
for device configuration, pushing your configuration to your devices.
Also the initial device provisioning when it first comes from the factory, you can use it for software
version to control to make sure that your devices have the same types of running, the same software
version on there.
You can use it to collect statistics from devices and report on those.
You can also use it for compliance verification so you can take your new and good configuration.
The device should have and use automation to check that that is what is actually configured on the device.
It can also be used for troubleshooting as well because automation can provide an organization wide
view of the network, which means that you can do system wide troubleshooting rather than having to
do one device a time.
Network programmability enables the automation and reduces human to machine interaction, when you've
got a machine that's doing the work, it's going to do exactly what you tell it to do.
Machines don't make mistakes.
So if it is a mistake, it will be because you have mis configured the machine.
By having a machine do that work, that greatly reduces the chance of human errors such as typos, modern
programmability and automation tools have been built with monitoring, configuration and troubleshooting
in mind.
It's much more scalable when you can use automation to manage multiple devices at the same time, rather
than doing them one at a time.
Network programmability can provide configuration version control.
You can use that to look at the history of what changes have been made.
It's also very easy to roll back to a previous version if it is required, and as well as the configuration
version control where you're checking what changes have been made to the configuration on device.
It can also provide software version control.
Where you check the operating system on your different devices is the one that it should be.
Troubleshooting is more efficient with a system wide view, but where you can cardelli events between
your different devices, all in one global view, rather than trying to do it, the old manual way of
one time events and at records can be acted on programming program ICLEI so you can automate your response
if there is a problem.
And improving configuration and troubleshooting efficiency obviously reduces your operational expenses.
Automation also provides students which can ensure devices have a standardized configuration, it can
also provide reports on and correct any exceptions to that.
It provides correlation between events on different devices for easier troubleshooting, and it can
take corrective action on events and enter codes.
OK, so that is the benefits that we get from automation.
Which automation methods should you use?
Well, it depends on your particular environment because there's lots of different ways, lots of different
software tools that you can use to implement this, such as Python Script, Netcom, Rascon, Ansible,
Poppit Estienne, Cisco DNA Center, etc..
We're going to be talking about all of those different options.
You're going to learn about them all in this section.
They all know all of those methods are supported by all devices.
So which one you're going to use depends on what is supported in your environment, what is most suitable
for your environment, and also the skills that you have as well.
So maybe you'll be able to use Ansible because they are simple, but you don't have python skills right
now.
Well, in not case, Ansible would be a better choice for you.
Don't want worry.
Buy all the different methods you see there because you are going to learn about them all in this section.
OK, before I wrap up here, I want to show you automation in action so that you can visualize this
and get an idea of how useful it is.
So something you've seen before, it is configuring a virtual machine in Amazon Web Services.
So you can see here, I've logged into my AWB account and I want to configure a virtual machine here.
So first off, I choose the operating system that I want the virtual machine to be running.
So I will select that.
Then on the next page, I select how powerful I want this virtual machine to be, how many virtual ships
use it will have and how much memory.
And then I click next on there.
And then on this page, you see I've got all the networking details, so I select the network that I
want to use here.
The subnet, if I want it to have an IP address, etc, then I can figure the storage, the type of
storage I want this virtual machine to have and how much it needs.
I can add tags, which makes it easier to manage and then I can figure this to a group where is where
I can figure the firewall rules.
Can you see the way that this works is Versova Web based front end bot will then talk to some software
behind here which automatically configure is the virtual machine with the settings that I requested
here.
Now the old traditional way of doing this, if you wanted a new server, is you would talk to the different
items.
You would have to speak to the server team, also the storage team and the networking team as well.
Everything would be done manually.
It would maybe take a few weeks to get this server up and running with automation.
The server can be running in fifteen minutes.
Now, obviously, when we put these settings in, it's not being done manually by people over HWC.
This is all being automated through software and it would be impossible for us to do this manually.
Their business model would not work.
So you can see when we've got a very large environment, the benefits of automation are very obvious
if you're in a small environment.
So you can still get benefits of automation as well.
So if you're just configuring five devices, it's still quicker to do five at a time and it is one at
a time.
And also with the troubleshooting, with the system wide view you can get with network programmability,
you're also going to get big benefits there.
So network programming, ability and automation, it's actually a relatively new thing.
We've been working on our network devices, the command line for decades.
Automation is really just kicking off in the last few years.
It's been driven, first of all, by large organizations and cloud providers and service providers.
But the benefits are going to trickle down to smaller organizations, as well as more software tools
become available.
Now, if you're worried that automation is now going to mean, well, what's the point of being a network
engineer now, then if everything can be done, am I clever?
It's not going to be a job for me anymore.
Well, with this automation, the people that are going to be configuring this, you still need to understand
how networking works.
So everything that we've learned earlier in the course about, well, all the different networking technologies
are and how it configure them, you still need.
Knew that information, so you've got that baseline information now you can take it and improve on your
working practices by using automation.
OK, that's everything I need to tell you here.
See you in the next lecture.